Israeli media is reporting that
negotiations for a ceasefire deal with
Hamas have stalled with the Israeli
government deciding against sending a
delegation to the latest talks in Cairo
there had been hopes a deal could be in
place by Ramadan after the White House
said there was a framework agreement on
the table for a six week ceasefire Al
jaz's ham salute has more now from
occupied East
Jerusalem negotiations around ceasefire
talks have stalled Israeli officials
speaking anonymously to Israeli media
have said that Israel decided against
sending a delegation to Cairo and that's
because Hamas did not release a list of
names of all of the captives who are
still alive this is something that came
at the request of Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu who said that he
needed this in order to move forward
with these talks however Hamas has said
that they're not willing to give up that
kind of information until there is a
finalized deal in place but what the
term finalized deal means is quite
elusive at this point Hamas however has
said that their position Remains the
Same and they wanted to reiterate that
that they are looking for a permanent
ceasefire an end to the war whereas the
Israelis have said even if there is a
six week pause in the fighting they are
going to continue on with their military
activities just on Sunday Israel's
defense minister yoav Galant has said
that under no circumstances will the war
end until there is a total defeat of
Hamas mediators are trying to bridge
these gaps and Bridge sticking points to
see what kind of concessions can be made
by both sides in order to achieve a deal
but Netanyahu himself has said that even
though there are discussions around a
ceasefire it doesn't mean we are
anywhere closer to getting a deal ham Al
jazer occupied East
Jerusalem well Hamas meanwhile has
clarified what it hopes to achieve from
a pause in fighting before Ramadan
although hopes of that happening have
dimmed in recent days a Hamas
spokesperson said a top priority is
allowing more humanitarian Aid into the
strip Hamas also wants Palestinians to
be able to return to the northern part
of Gaza and finally Hamas wants a
complete withdrawal of Israeli forces
from
Gaza well US vice president KLA Harris
says Palestinians in Gaza are suffering
a humanitarian catastrophe she's called
for an immediate ceasefire to secure the
flow of Aid and the release of the
captives and
given the immense scale of suffering in
in Gaza there must be an immediate
ceasefire for at least the next six
weeks which is what is currently on the
table this will get the hostages out and
get a significant amount of Aid
in this would allow us to build
something more enduring so let's bring
in Ramy kuri he's a distinguished public
policy fellow at the the American
University of Beirut and joins us live
now from Boston Ramy always good to have
you with us so look Israeli media
reporting that Israel won't be sending
this delegation to Cairo is this just a
negotiating tactic or does this now dash
all hopes of a ceasefire deal before
Ramadan say that it's dashed all hope
before Ramadan Ramadan is a March 10th
so there's another full week um but this
is a kind of hard ball as they call it
in the United States really tough
negotiation and but the thing is
Netanyahu is negotiating with Hamas he's
also negotiating with the United States
and he's also negotiating with his
Partners in the uh uh temporary
government the war government and one of
whom Benny Gant is in Washington having
talks with American officials and
Netanyahu did not want him to go but he
went so uh there's a this is a you know
six-dimensional negotiation not just
Israel and Hamas but you have to really
see the core issue as Israel wants some
bottom line gains they want the hostages
uh released and they want to be sure
that no never again will they be
attacked uh from Gaza and the uh and
Hamas and the Palestinian people and
government uh also want all their
prisoners released and the guarantee
that never again will Israel place them
under siege so these are many many
issues that come together yeah Ramy I
mean given the terrible death and
destruction we see every day in Gaza it
does beg the question though then what
is Israel's priority in this war is it
to punish and kill the civilians in Gaza
or is it to get the captives
out most people think that their
ultimate objective is to drive the
Palestinians out of Palestine not just
Gaza but also the West Bank um and and J
East Jerusalem and they're doing it in
many ways destroying houses refusing
permits scaring people out uh choking
the economy they've been doing this for
50 60 years uh that's the ultimate uh
goal they want all of Palestine to be
under total and um only Israeli Jewish
rule that's what the Zionist project is
all about and and they're pushing in
that direction now much more openly than
they ever did before they also used to
do it surreptitiously but in the short
term uh what they want is they want the
hostages out and they want their uh Gaza
Israel border not to be a place uh that
is threatening to Israeli civilians Ramy
uh the the sticking point then appears
to be that Hamas won't provide this list
of the living captives it insists on an
end to the war while Israel on the other
hand says even if there is a six- we
pause the war will continue afterwards
so where will the concessions come from
Ramy well again you have many different
issues uh the number of will they give
them list the first uh uh ceasefire they
didn't give a list they just said
there'll be so many people released
woman children they but they didn't give
a list of names uh so list is a new
demand and it's not apparently a
government demand it's netanyahu's own
uh demand that he made at the last
minute there's issue of how many
Palestinian prisoners in Israel will be
released for each hostage there's a
question of will this be a a ceasefire
for six weeks and then the war will the
bombing of
the genocidal bombing of Gaza will
continue I mean Hamas has no interest in
a brief pause and then they're re
subjected to this incredible assault um
on them and killing civilians who lining
up to get humanitarian Aid I mean the
barbarity that is coming out of the
state never ends uh Ramy just a final
thought to you I mean it was just
yesterday that the White House was quite
optimistic that this framework deal was
on the table now we have the vice
president kamla Harris calling for an
immediate ceasefire but the us though
Ramy seems powerless in this war and
Washington is becoming even more
isolated in its support for
Israel yes the US is getting hurt as a
nation as a country in the world uh it
is showing itself to be as it seems to
have been for the last 40 50 years
pretty much doing whatever Israel wants
it to do with very very rare exceptions
third of all you've got now a historic
new development which is the Palestine
issue is a domestic political electoral
issue and what happened in Michigan last
week and what might happen next Tuesday
on super Tuesday is a big shock to the
big scary shock to the Democratic party
that they might lose these swing States
and because a bunch of people not just
Arab Americans or Muslim Americans but
African-Americans Hispanic Americans
students Progressive Jews labor unions a
whole Coalition that had always been the
core of the democratic party is now
saying we're not going to vote for you
Biden unless you do this immediate
ceasefire so you've got that new element
uh as well it's a very
multi-dimensional Dynamic and nobody has
a single hold on on the whole thing Ramy
Curry always good to get your thoughts
and your analysis Ramy thank you very
much indeed for talking to
us thank you